با عرض سلام لینک مقاله ی اصلی ایرانداک:

https://ganj.irandoc.ac.ir/#/articles/385d2fd45ae2583cad6791ed52d1ee62

موضوع مقاله به فارسی:

تشخیص بیماری آلزایمر از طریق تحلیل سیگنال های الکتروانسفالوگرام با استفاده از شبکه های عصبی کانوولوشنال

موضوع مقاله به انگلیسی:

Diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease Through Analysis of EEG Signals Using Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs)

Abstract: Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disease, the most common form of 
dementia, the third most expensive and the sixth leading cause of death in the United States. It
affects more than 10 percent of Americans over the age of 65, nearly 50 percent of people over
the age of 85, and is estimated to triple its prevalence over the next 50 years. Alzheimer's
disease in Iran affects about 700,000 people. The progression of the disease can be classified
into four stages: mild cognitive impairment, mild Alzheimer's and moderate Alzheimer's and
severe Alzheimer's. Diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease is performed by a doctor's examination
and diagnosis. Interpretation of EEG signals by Alzheimer's patients is usually accompanied
by errors and errors due to medical bias, carelessness and difficulty in visual recognition as
well as fatigue; therefore, the need for high-precision automatic detection algorithms along
with physician diagnosis is felt. Early diagnosis can also slow the course of the disease. In this
thesis, EEG diagnostic tools are used because of their cheapness and non-invasiveness.
In this thesis, the method of automatic identification of the patient with Alzheimer's disease
using deep learning is used. In the proposed algorithm, the EEG signal was used to separate
the classes. Convolutional neural networks are a special type of neural network that exhibits
the most advanced results in competitive criteria. The ability to learn convolutional neural
networks largely depends on the use of several feature extraction steps that can automatically
learn hierarchical representation of the data. A canonical neural network consists of three
main layers: the cannulation layer, the integration layer, and the fully connected layer. The
proposed algorithm in this thesis has two main advantages. The first advantage is the
elimination of the feature selection stage because of the automatic feature selection and the
second advantage of increasing the values of the criteria for accuracy, accuracy, sensitivity
and specificity using this algorithm. The algorithm results for the 2-class Alzheimer's disease
and healthy states, respectively, provide accuracy, sensitivity and specificity of 97, 95 and 97%,
respectively, which show better results than other classification algorithms with the available
data. It also exhibits good resistance to various noises.
